## Adsorption measurement for aqueous-phase cyclohexanol on HBEA
The aqueous phase adsorption of cyclohexanol on HBEA was carried out by immersing 30–40 mg HBEA in an aqueous solution of cyclohexanol at a certain concentration and agitation (≈ 700 rpm) for at least 24 h. The zeolite was filtered from the liquid and the residual concentration of cyclohexanol in the filtrate was measured with Agilent 7890A GC equipping a flame ionization detector (FID) and HP-5 column (25 m of length and 0.25 µm i.d.) after extraction with dichloromethane. The quantification was done using 1,3-dimethoxy-benzene as an internal standard. The uptake was determined by the change in bulk concentration, volume of the solution and mass of the solid sample as following:

$$\begin{equation*}
Q = Q_{sat}\frac{K_{ads}^{\circ} [Cy-C_{6}OH]_{{aq}}}{1+{K_{ads}^{\circ} [Cy-C_{6}OH]_{{aq}}}} \tag{Eq. 1}
\end{equation*}$$

where _Q_ is the cyclohexanol uptake; _Q_sat is saturated uptake of cyclohexanol; (Cy-C6OH)aq is the equilibrium concentration of aqueous cyclohexanol; _K_°ads is the adsorption constant. The coverage of cyclohexanol (θ) can be expressed by the quotient of Q/Qsat (θ = Q/Q_sat).

## Kinetic measurement
Kinetic measurements were performed at 150-180 °C using a 300 ml Hastelloy PARR reactor. In typical reaction, aqueous cyclohexanol solution (0.3 M, 100 ml) and 200 mg HBEA zeolite (Si/Al = 15–400). The reactor was then pressurized with 40 bar H2 at room temperature and heated to reaction temperature (150–180 °C) under vigorous stirring at 700 rpm. After the reaction, the reactor was immediately cooled below 5 °C with an ice/water mixture. The organic phase was extracted with 150 ml dichloromethane (30 ml per extraction, 5 times) and dried over sodium sulfate. The reactant and products were quantified with external standard of 1,3-dimethoxybenzene using an Agilent 7890A GC equipped with a flame ionization detector (FID) and HP-5MS column (25 x 0.25 μm i.d).
HCl-catalyzed dehydration of cyclohexanol was performed in a 100 ml Hastelloy Parr reactor. In a typical experiment, 33 mL aqueous solution of 0.001 M HCl, 0.33 M cyclohexanol and different concentrations of LiCl were loaded in the reactor. The reactor was sealed and purged three times with 40 bar N2, and afterwards pressurized to a N2-pressure of 40 bar at ambient temperature. The reactor was then heated to desired reaction temperatures, e.g. 180 oC. As soon as the temperature was reached, agitation (700 rpm) was started. At the end of a reaction, the reactor was immediately cooled with an ice/water mixture to 5 °C and lower. Reactants and products were extracted three times with 20 ml of ethyl acetate each time, and 2-cyclohexen-1-one was used as an internal standard. The organic phase, was then separated and dried over sodium sulfate, and analyzed on a Shimadzu 2010 GC equipped with an HP-5MS 25m×0.25 mm (i.d.) column and a flame ionization detector (FID).

Therefore, to quantify the concentration of hydronium ions, 33 mL of the recovered solution was added to the 100 mL Hastelloy Parr reactor and cyclohexanol (0.33 M) was added. Multiple reactions with HCl as a catalyst were conducted (conversion < 10%) to allow calculating rates of HCl-catalyzed cyclohexene formation.